4-16-2020  Updated 4-19-2020

This should work under most any Linux and Linux under
WSL (Ubuntu, Debian) for windows at the command prompt.

If running this under Linux you will need 'gcc' compiler.
To see if it's installed type in  gcc --version  if OK
then simply do the following:

tar -xf bwbasic-3.2a.tar

cd <here>

To make 'cls' work as it does in DOS perform once

sudo ln /usr/bin/clear /usr/bin/cls

Now lets build bwbasic

sh compile

Read prompts

That's it.

bwbasic and renum are in /usr/local/bin

If you want bwbasic to work from a GUI:
(1) copy bwbasic.sh to a suitable location
    and make sure to  chmod 755 bwbasic.sh
    so it's executable.
(2) copy bwbasic.png to a suitable location
(3) edit bwbasic.desktop and change references
    for File Location then cp bwbasic.desktop to ~/Desktop/.
    and it should work from the desktop.

If running under Windows 10 you will need 'gcc' compiler.
To see if it's installed type in  gcc --version  if you
think you have gcc installed verify your 'path'. If OK
then at the command prompt

cd <here>

compile.bat

Read prompts

That's it.

Move bwbasic.exe and renum.exe to locations in your path.

There are many, many examples in BAS-EXAMPLES and information
in INFO.

All should work fine. But as usual no guarentee is implied.

4-19-2020

I have included some runtime files and sample input files.
Place profile.bas in your current working directory and
relays.pro and allon.inp and alloff.inp. The file examples
will let you to by example turn off all relays alloff.inp.
To do this you would enter at the command line:

bwbasic --profile relays.pro --tape alloff.inp relays.bas

To turn all relays on:

bwbasic --profile relays.pro --tape allon.inp relays.bas

To work interaactive you would:

bwbasic relays.bas

Once you get a handle on relays.bas commands you can
create you own .inp files and reference them by

bwbasic --profile relays.pro --tape <your file.inp > relays.bas

All the above can placed into a simple script file.

The purpose of relays.pro is to redirect standard and error
outputs to files relays-stdout.txt and relays-error.txt and
to tuen off ANSI so the output is easily readable without
escape codes. Using relays.pro then gives you a quiet display
suitable when scripts via .inp is executed.

The purpose of profile.bas which is used by default is to
enable ANSI control sequences so the command 'cls' works
and to set the normal editor to nano which if desired can
bet set to vi. The editor comes into play when creating
or changing a .bas file. To use while running bwbasic you
would issuse the command edit.

